Vector data (#39)
carpentries-incubator/geospatial-python: _episodes/02-intro-vector-data.md

## Vector Data Format for this Workshop

Like raster data, vector data can also come in many different formats. For this

> workshop, we will use the Shapefile format. A Shapefile formate consists of multiple
> files, among which `.shp`, `.shx`, and `.bdf` files are mandatory. `.shp` file stores 
> the feature geometry itself; `.shx` is a positional index of the feature geometry to 
> allow seeking forwards and backwards quicklythe geographic coordinates of each vertex
> in the vector, and `.dbf` is columnar attributes for each shape. Other non-mandatory but
> very important files are `.prj` and `shp.xml` files. `.prj` file indicates the Coordinate 
> reference system (CRS), and `.shp.xml` contains the metadata. Together the Shapefile
> includes the following information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
workshop, we will use the Shapefile format. A Shapefile format consists of multiple
files in the same directory, of which `.shp`, `.shx`, and `.dbf` files are mandatory. Other non-mandatory but very important files are `.prj` and `shp.xml` files. 

- The `.shp` file stores the feature geometry itself 
- `.shx` is a positional index of the feature geometry to allow quickly searching forwards and backwards the geographic coordinates of each vertex in the vector
- `.dbf` contains the tabular attributes for each shape. 
- `.prj` file indicates the Coordinate reference system (CRS)
- `.shp.xml` contains the Shapefile metadata. 

Together, the Shapefile includes the following information:
```
